# Temporality Streams (2019)

## Links

[Recording](https://soundcloud.com/ian-macdougald/temporality-streams)
[Source code]()

Temporality is an electro-acoustic piece of music written for violin and SuperCollider. The piece is composed in four sections designed to explore different concepts of temporal musical organization. The first section consists of pops and clicks produced on the violin, which are recorded into a Buffer object; the contents of the Buffer are manipulated via granular synthesis algorithms whose parameters are mapped to controls derived from the pitch, amplitude, and timbral features extracted from the live sound input. In this way, the section’s music features the violin in a constantly present state of interpreting its immediate past. The second section builds on the material of the first by extending the granulation of the live sound into the domains of the meta and the meta-meta as the granulation is similarly recorded and reorganized in a secondary process even as it is itself subjected to these same procedures, producing a tertiary process. The cumulative result is a cascading butterfly effect of granular synthesis extending in time far beyond the initial input of the violin, and, as such, the music moves in its perspective from an exploration of the relationship between the past and the present to one exploring the relationship between the present and the future. The third and fourth sections complement the premises of the first and second. In the third section, the real-time synthesis procedures are replaced by a metaphorically-apt time-stretching algorithm on an audio file while the fourth section observes a return of the original material, but subjected to long delays and desolate reverberations. The piece is designed for an improvisational live performance, and so the recording of it can be considered, in a sense, both a realization of this performance as well as a work-in-progress instance representing a still developing understanding of the systems at play.
